Apache Kafka and Zookeeper can be installed either on the host system or in a virtualized environment (like Docker or a virtual machine). It is not mandatory to install them inside a Python virtual environment since Kafka and Zookeeper are Java-based tools and run independently of Python.

Here's a step-by-step guide to install and configure Kafka and Zookeeper:
Steps to Install Kafka and Zookeeper
1. Prerequisites

    Java Installation:
        Kafka requires Java to run. Install the OpenJDK version 8 or 11:

    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install openjdk-11-jdk -y
    java -version

    Ensure Java is installed and properly configured.

Download Kafka:

    Visit Kafka's official download page and download the latest binary version. For example:

        wget https://downloads.apache.org/kafka/3.5.0/kafka_2.13-3.5.0.tgz

2. Extract Kafka

    Extract the downloaded Kafka archive:

    tar -xzf kafka_2.13-3.5.0.tgz
    cd kafka_2.13-3.5.0

3. Start Zookeeper

Kafka requires Zookeeper for coordination. Kafka binaries come with Zookeeper, so you can use the built-in scripts to start it.

    Start Zookeeper:

    bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties

4. Start Kafka Broker

    Open a new terminal, navigate to the Kafka directory, and start the Kafka server:

    bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties

5. Verify Installation

    Ensure Kafka and Zookeeper processes are running:

    ps -ef | grep kafka
    ps -ef | grep zookeeper

6. Create a Kafka Topic

    Create a topic to store messages:

bin/kafka-topics.sh --create --topic stock_prices --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --partitions 1 --replication-factor 1

List topics:

    bin/kafka-topics.sh --list --bootstrap-server localhost:9092

7. Test Kafka Producer and Consumer

    Producer: Send messages to the topic:

bin/kafka-console-producer.sh --topic stock_prices --bootstrap-server localhost:9092

Type a few messages and press Enter.

Consumer: Read messages from the topic:

bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --topic stock_prices --bootstrap-server localhost:9092 --from-beginning

----Step 2---
Integrating Kafka with Python

    Install the Python Kafka client:

pip install kafka-python

Use the KafkaProducer and KafkaConsumer classes to send and receive messages.
